Further MergeTree Client Legacy Deprecations (#22629)
microsoft/FluidFramework: .changeset/shaggy-pens-occur.md

---
"@fluidframework/merge-tree": minor
"@fluidframework/sequence": minor
---
---
"section": deprecation
---

Further MergeTree Client Legacy Deprecations

> In an effort the reduce exposure of the Client class in the merge-tree package this change additionally deprecates a number of types which either directly or indirectly expose the merge-tree Client class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an effort the reduce exposure of the Client class in the merge-tree package, this change additionally deprecates a number of types which either directly or indirectly expose the merge-tree Client class.
```

> In an effort the reduce exposure of the Client class in the merge-tree package this change additionally deprecates a number of types which either directly or indirectly expose the merge-tree Client class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an effort to reduce the exposure of the Client class in the merge-tree package this change additionally deprecates a number of types which either directly or indirectly expose the merge-tree Client class.
```

> In an effort the reduce exposure of the Client class in the merge-tree package this change additionally deprecates a number of types which either directly or indirectly expose the merge-tree Client class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To reduce exposure of the `Client` class in the merge-tree package, several types have been deprecated. These types directly or indirectly expose the merge-tree `Client` class.
```

> Most of these types are not meant to be used directly, and direct use is not supported:
>  - AttributionPolicy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most of these types are not meant to be used directly, and direct use is not supported:

 - AttributionPolicy
```

 - IClientEvents
 - IMergeTreeAttributionOptions
 - SharedSegmentSequence
 - SharedStringClass

> Some of the deprecations are for class constructors and in those cases we plan to replace the class with an interface which has an equivalent API. Direct instantiation of these classes is not currently supported or necessary for any supported scenario, so the change to an interface should not impact usage:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of the deprecations are for class constructors, and in those cases, we plan to replace the class with an interface which has an equivalent API. Direct instantiation of these classes is not currently supported or necessary for any supported scenario, so the change to an interface should not impact usage:
```

> Some of the deprecations are for class constructors and in those cases we plan to replace the class with an interface which has an equivalent API. Direct instantiation of these classes is not currently supported or necessary for any supported scenario, so the change to an interface should not impact usage:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some of the deprecations are class constructors. In those cases, we plan to replace the class with an interface which has an equivalent API. Direct instantiation of these classes is not currently supported or necessary for any supported scenario, so the change to an interface should not impact usage. This applies to the following types:
```

---
"@fluidframework/merge-tree": minor
"@fluidframework/sequence": minor
---
---
"section": deprecation
---

Further MergeTree Client Legacy Deprecations

> In an effort the reduce exposure of the Client class in the merge-tree package, this change additionally deprecates a number of types which either directly or indirectly expose the merge-tree Client class.

Author: ```suggestion
In an effort to reduce the exposure of the `Client` class in the merge-tree package, this change additionally deprecates a number of types which either directly or indirectly expose the merge-tree `Client` class.
```

> In an effort to reduce the exposure of the `Client` class in the merge-tree package, this change additionally deprecates a number of types which either directly or indirectly expose the merge-tree `Client` class.

Author: ```suggestion
To reduce exposure of the `Client` class in the merge-tree package, several types have been deprecated. These types directly or indirectly expose the merge-tree `Client` class.
```

Most of these types are not meant to be used directly, and direct use is not supported:

 - AttributionPolicy
 - IClientEvents
 - IMergeTreeAttributionOptions
 - SharedSegmentSequence
 - SharedStringClass

> Some of the deprecations are for class constructors, and in those cases, we plan to replace the class with an interface which has an equivalent API. Direct instantiation of these classes is not currently supported or necessary for any supported scenario, so the change to an interface should not impact usage:

Author: ```suggestion
Some of the deprecations are class constructors. In those cases, we plan to replace the class with an interface which has an equivalent API. Direct instantiation of these classes is not currently supported or necessary for any supported scenario, so the change to an interface should not impact usage. This applies to the following types:
```
